3d_monolayer/README.md, before:

# CellProfiler Tutorial: 3d monolayer

# Organizing and importing images

## Z-stacks as TIFFs

* This tutorial features images of human induced pluripotent stem cells from the Allen Institute of Cell Science. More details are available at the following link: [https://bbbc.broadinstitute.org/BBBC034](https://bbbc.broadinstitute.org/BBBC034).  
* CellProfiler 3D currently only works with TIFF files. TIFF files can be rather complicated, having hyper-stack structures with all channels and z-planes in a single file. The acceptable CellProfiler format for storing z-stacks is to have a separate TIFF file for each channel.
* ImageJ or FIJI can be used to create TIFF stacks. Scripting can be used to create TIFF stacks.
* Note that this tutorial is an advanced tutorial. We recommend completing the Translocation tutorial in order to learn principles of image thresholding and segmentation prior to starting this tutorial.
* Helpful video tutorials are available on the Center for Open Bioimage Analysis YouTube page at [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_id9sE-vu_i30Bd-skay7Q](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_id9sE-vu_i30Bd-skay7Q).

## Importing data in CellProfiler

1. Highlight the Images module.
1. Drag-and-drop the images you will analyze into the Images module window.
1. Highlight the Metadata module.
1. Enter the following regular expression `^(?P<Plate>.*)_xy(?P<Site>[0-9])_ch(?P<ChannelNumber>[0-9])`. This regular expression will parse the filenames and organize the data.
1. Highlight the NamesAndTypes module.
1. Assign a name to "Images matching rules".
1. Choose “Process as 3D”
1. Populate the fields for "Relative Pixel Spacing".
   * Fiji > Image > Show Info… (Ctrl + I)
   * Search for something like “Voxel size” or record this metadata when collecting own images
   * The actual units do not matter, rather their relative proportion. The numbers are unitless and therefore the decimal place does not matter.
1. Create "rule criteria" to identify an image by its color/channel. For example, using the Metadata you just extracted - `Metadata -> Does -> Have ChannelNumber matching -> 0` would match the first image.
1. Give the images "variable names" that describe the contents in the image. For example, use the name *dna* or *dapi* to describe an image stained with DAPI.
1. Add images with rulesets for the other channels in the experiment. In this case, Channel 0 contains images of the plasma membrane, Channel 1 contains images of mitochondria, and Channel 2 contain images of DNA.

# Find objects: nuclei

## Image preparation

Before attempting to segment the cells in the images, conditioning the images with filters and various image processing methods will improve the results.

1. Add a **RescaleIntensity** module for the DNA channel. Rescaling the DNA image proportionally stretches the intensity values to the full intensity range, from 0 to 1. In this case, we find that rescaling improves the thresholding and subsequent segmentation of nuclei. When using rescaling in your pipelines, be careful to perform measurements on the original images, not the rescaled images.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/rescale_5.png" alt="rescale5" width="400"/>

1. Add a **Resize** module. Processing 3D images requires much more computation time than 2D images. Often, downsampling an image can yield large performance gains and at the same time smooth an image to remove noise. Final segmentation results will be minimally affected by downsampling if the objects of interest are relatively large compared to the pixel size. Choose a value of *0.5*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_6.png" alt="resize_6" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **MedianFilter** module. A median filter will homogenize the signal within the nucleus and reduce noise in the background. DNA is not uniformly distributed throughout the nucleus, which can lead to holes forming in the downstream object identification. A median filter will preserve boundaries better than other smoothing filters such as the Gaussian filter. Choose a filter size of *5*. This number was chosen empirically: it is smaller than the diameter of a typical nucleus; it is small enough that nuclei aren't merged together, yet large enough to suppress over-segmentation of the nuclei.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/medianfilter_7.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

## Segmentation

1. Add an **Threshold** module. This identifies a pixel intensity value to separate the foreground (nuclei) from the background. Empirically, we've found that a two-class Otsu threshold works well for this data. We encourage you to try other thresholding methods to compare the outputs.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/applythreshold_8.png" alt="rescale5 "width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **RemoveHoles** module. This module implements an algorithm that will remove small holes within the nucleus. Any remaining holes will contribute to over-segmentation of the nuclei. Choose a size of *20*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/removeholes_9.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Watershed** module. This module implements the watershed algorithm, which will segment the nuclei. Select a Footprint of *10* and Downsample by *2*. Downsampling reduces processing time and decreases noise.  For more information on the watershed algorithm refer to this helpful [MATLAB blog post](https://www.mathworks.com/company/newsletters/articles/the-watershed-transform-strategies-for-image-segmentation.html).

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/watershed_10.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **ResizeObjects** module to return the segmented nuclei to the size of the original image. Since the original image was scaled down by *0.5*, it must be scaled up by *2*. The output of this module is the nuclei we are seeking, so name these objects accordingly, e.g. *Nuclei*.
    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_11.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

# Find objects: cells

Now that we've segmented the nuclei we want to segment the cytoplasm for each nuclei whose boundaries are defined by the membrane channel. The membrane channel presents more of a challenge, because unlike the nuclei, the membrane signal is variable and the boundaries are connected together in a sort of mesh. This challenge is mitigated by the fact that the location of the nuclei can be used to help identify regions with cells.

## Transform nuclei into markers

1. Shrink the nuclei to make them more seed-like by adding an **ErodeObjects** module. Use the *ball* structuring element with a size of *5*. Select "Yes" for the "Prevent object removal" option in order to avoid losing any nuclei.

    We've found that we can achieve the best results by applying **ErodeObjects** to the output of the Watershed module rather than the resized Nuclei that are at the original size (since the Watershed output has been downsampled, the resulting seeds from **ErodeObjects** are smaller and more seed-like).

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/erodeobjects_12.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Resize these eroded objects using the **ResizeObjects** module with a factor of *2*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_13.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Next convert the eroded and resized nuclei to an image using the **ConvertObjectsToImage** module. Select the *uint16* color format. This image will serve as the seeds for segmenting the cells.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/convertobjectstoimage_14.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

## Transform the membrane channel into cytoplasm signal

The Watershed module finds objects that have bright signal, so the cytoplasm that will define the cell volume should have bright signal. However, this is not the case in the membrane channel; it must be transformed into an image where the cytoplasm is bright and the boundaries between the cells are dark. Therefore, we will invert the membrane channel to achieve this effect.

1. Add a **Threshold** module and threshold the rescaled membrane image. We find that the *Otsu three-class* method with middle intensity pixels assigned to the foreground works well, but feel free to try others.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/applythreshold_15.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add an **ImageMath** module. Within the ImageMath module choose the *Invert* operation, and invert the thresholded membrane.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/imagemath_16.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

    We invert the thresholded membrane in order to create a binary image where the pixels inside of cells are bright (1) and the pixels surrounding cells are black (0).

1. Add a **RemoveHoles** module to remove the small holes in the segmentation of the cell interior. This helps to prevent the cells from being split during the Watershed segmentation. Choose a size of *20*. This result will be referred to as the *Inverted Membrane*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/removeholes_17.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

    We cannot use the inverted membrane image as the cytoplasm just yet. The space above and the below the monolayer is also of high signal. The Watershed module cannot distinguish that this is not cytoplasm, so it will have to be removed. To do this we will take advantage of the signal across all channels to define the boundaries of the monolayer.

1. Add another **ImageMath** module. Add all of the original images together. This creates a composite image that will be used to define where cells are present and the background above and below the cells. This image will be referred to as the *Monolayer*

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/imagemath_18.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Resize** module to resize the Monolayer with a *Resizing factor* of *0.25*. Downsampling the image makes processing faster and decreases noise.  

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_19.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Closing** module. Choose a size of *17* to blend the signal together. The result should look like a cloud of signal where the monolayer resides.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/closing_20.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Resize** module to resize the closed Monolayer back to its original size, using a *Resizing factor* of *4*.  

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_21.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Threshold** module and threshold the smoothed monolayer image. This will define what is and is not monolayer. Note that the space above and below the monolayer is primarily black.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/applythreshold_22.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

    Now we will combine the information from the membrane channel with what we identified as the monolayer. We will do this by using the **MaskImage** module to apply the MonolayerMask to the thresholded membrane.

1. Add a **MaskImage** module. You will use an *Image* as a mask (the MonolayerMask image generated in the previous step). In this case, the mask does not need to be inverted. Note that the planes on the bottom and top of the z-stack are black in the masked image.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/maskimage_23.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add an **ErodeImage** module. We will use this module to erode the membrane image generated in the previous step. Eroding using a *ball* of size *1* improves the separation between individual cells in the Watershed segmentation (the next step).   

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/erodeimage_24.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Watershed** module. The input is the result of the previous ErodeImage module, referred to here as the MembFinal. Change the *Generate from* option to *Markers*. The Markers will be the *NucleiSeeds* image, which is the output of the ConvertObjectsToImage module. Finally, set the Mask to also be the *MembFinal*. This will help preserve the cell boundaries.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/watershed_25.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

# Making measurements
Now that the nuclei and cells have been segmented in this monolayer, measurements can be made using modules from the **Measurements** category.

1. Add any desired measurements modules. For example, you might choose to **MeasureObjectIntensity** and/or **MeasureObjectSizeShape**. When applying these measurements, be careful to measure the original images, not rescaled images.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/measureintensity_26.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Save the ouput of your measurements using **ExportToSpreadsheet** or **ExportToDatabase**.

# Creating visuals

Congratulations! The nuclei and cells have been segmented and measured in this monolayer. Visuals that reveal the details of the segmentation can be also be created within CellProfiler. The following steps will walk through two different options to visualize your CellProfiler segmentations.

1. The **OverlayObjects** module will overlay the objects as colored masks on the image. We recommend overlaying onto rescaled images, which will be easier to visualize outside of CellProfiler. For example, you can choose the *Nuclei* as the objects and the *RescaledDNA* as your image. Add a **SaveImages** module to save this image. You can repeat these steps to save the cells objects overlaid on a rescaled image of the membrane.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/overlay_29.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. You can also convert the objects to images using the **ConvertObjectsToImage** module and then save the output using **SaveImages**. This option will allow you to visualize the segmentations directly in Fiji.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/convertobjectstoimage_36.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>


After running these last two modules an output image will be created and saved to the output directory. Use Fiji to inspect the this image.

Thank you for completing the 3d monolayer tutorial!

Commit message:

Remove overlay save images since currently broken in CP

3d_monolayer/README.md, after:

# CellProfiler Tutorial: 3d monolayer

# Organizing and importing images

## Z-stacks as TIFFs

* This tutorial features images of human induced pluripotent stem cells from the Allen Institute of Cell Science. More details are available at the following link: [https://bbbc.broadinstitute.org/BBBC034](https://bbbc.broadinstitute.org/BBBC034).  
* CellProfiler 3D currently only works with TIFF files. TIFF files can be rather complicated, having hyper-stack structures with all channels and z-planes in a single file. The acceptable CellProfiler format for storing z-stacks is to have a separate TIFF file for each channel.
* ImageJ or FIJI can be used to create TIFF stacks. Scripting can be used to create TIFF stacks.
* Note that this tutorial is an advanced tutorial. We recommend completing the Translocation tutorial in order to learn principles of image thresholding and segmentation prior to starting this tutorial.
* Helpful video tutorials are available on the Center for Open Bioimage Analysis YouTube page at [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_id9sE-vu_i30Bd-skay7Q](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_id9sE-vu_i30Bd-skay7Q).

## Importing data in CellProfiler

1. Highlight the Images module.
1. Drag-and-drop the images you will analyze into the Images module window.
1. Highlight the Metadata module.
1. Enter the following regular expression `^(?P<Plate>.*)_xy(?P<Site>[0-9])_ch(?P<ChannelNumber>[0-9])`. This regular expression will parse the filenames and organize the data.
1. Highlight the NamesAndTypes module.
1. Assign a name to "Images matching rules".
1. Choose “Process as 3D”
1. Populate the fields for "Relative Pixel Spacing".
   * Fiji > Image > Show Info… (Ctrl + I)
   * Search for something like “Voxel size” or record this metadata when collecting own images
   * The actual units do not matter, rather their relative proportion. The numbers are unitless and therefore the decimal place does not matter.
1. Create "rule criteria" to identify an image by its color/channel. For example, using the Metadata you just extracted - `Metadata -> Does -> Have ChannelNumber matching -> 0` would match the first image.
1. Give the images "variable names" that describe the contents in the image. For example, use the name *dna* or *dapi* to describe an image stained with DAPI.
1. Add images with rulesets for the other channels in the experiment. In this case, Channel 0 contains images of the plasma membrane, Channel 1 contains images of mitochondria, and Channel 2 contain images of DNA.

# Find objects: nuclei

## Image preparation

Before attempting to segment the cells in the images, conditioning the images with filters and various image processing methods will improve the results.

1. Add a **RescaleIntensity** module for the DNA channel. Rescaling the DNA image proportionally stretches the intensity values to the full intensity range, from 0 to 1. In this case, we find that rescaling improves the thresholding and subsequent segmentation of nuclei. When using rescaling in your pipelines, be careful to perform measurements on the original images, not the rescaled images.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/rescale_5.png" alt="rescale5" width="400"/>

1. Add a **Resize** module. Processing 3D images requires much more computation time than 2D images. Often, downsampling an image can yield large performance gains and at the same time smooth an image to remove noise. Final segmentation results will be minimally affected by downsampling if the objects of interest are relatively large compared to the pixel size. Choose a value of *0.5*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_6.png" alt="resize_6" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **MedianFilter** module. A median filter will homogenize the signal within the nucleus and reduce noise in the background. DNA is not uniformly distributed throughout the nucleus, which can lead to holes forming in the downstream object identification. A median filter will preserve boundaries better than other smoothing filters such as the Gaussian filter. Choose a filter size of *5*. This number was chosen empirically: it is smaller than the diameter of a typical nucleus; it is small enough that nuclei aren't merged together, yet large enough to suppress over-segmentation of the nuclei.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/medianfilter_7.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

## Segmentation

1. Add an **Threshold** module. This identifies a pixel intensity value to separate the foreground (nuclei) from the background. Empirically, we've found that a two-class Otsu threshold works well for this data. We encourage you to try other thresholding methods to compare the outputs.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/applythreshold_8.png" alt="rescale5 "width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **RemoveHoles** module. This module implements an algorithm that will remove small holes within the nucleus. Any remaining holes will contribute to over-segmentation of the nuclei. Choose a size of *20*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/removeholes_9.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Watershed** module. This module implements the watershed algorithm, which will segment the nuclei. Select a Footprint of *10* and Downsample by *2*. Downsampling reduces processing time and decreases noise.  For more information on the watershed algorithm refer to this helpful [MATLAB blog post](https://www.mathworks.com/company/newsletters/articles/the-watershed-transform-strategies-for-image-segmentation.html).

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/watershed_10.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **ResizeObjects** module to return the segmented nuclei to the size of the original image. Since the original image was scaled down by *0.5*, it must be scaled up by *2*. The output of this module is the nuclei we are seeking, so name these objects accordingly, e.g. *Nuclei*.
    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_11.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

# Find objects: cells

Now that we've segmented the nuclei we want to segment the cytoplasm for each nuclei whose boundaries are defined by the membrane channel. The membrane channel presents more of a challenge, because unlike the nuclei, the membrane signal is variable and the boundaries are connected together in a sort of mesh. This challenge is mitigated by the fact that the location of the nuclei can be used to help identify regions with cells.

## Transform nuclei into markers

1. Shrink the nuclei to make them more seed-like by adding an **ErodeObjects** module. Use the *ball* structuring element with a size of *5*. Select "Yes" for the "Prevent object removal" option in order to avoid losing any nuclei.

    We've found that we can achieve the best results by applying **ErodeObjects** to the output of the Watershed module rather than the resized Nuclei that are at the original size (since the Watershed output has been downsampled, the resulting seeds from **ErodeObjects** are smaller and more seed-like).

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/erodeobjects_12.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Resize these eroded objects using the **ResizeObjects** module with a factor of *2*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_13.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Next convert the eroded and resized nuclei to an image using the **ConvertObjectsToImage** module. Select the *uint16* color format. This image will serve as the seeds for segmenting the cells.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/convertobjectstoimage_14.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

## Transform the membrane channel into cytoplasm signal

The Watershed module finds objects that have bright signal, so the cytoplasm that will define the cell volume should have bright signal. However, this is not the case in the membrane channel; it must be transformed into an image where the cytoplasm is bright and the boundaries between the cells are dark. Therefore, we will invert the membrane channel to achieve this effect.

1. Add a **Threshold** module and threshold the rescaled membrane image. We find that the *Otsu three-class* method with middle intensity pixels assigned to the foreground works well, but feel free to try others.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/applythreshold_15.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add an **ImageMath** module. Within the ImageMath module choose the *Invert* operation, and invert the thresholded membrane.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/imagemath_16.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

    We invert the thresholded membrane in order to create a binary image where the pixels inside of cells are bright (1) and the pixels surrounding cells are black (0).

1. Add a **RemoveHoles** module to remove the small holes in the segmentation of the cell interior. This helps to prevent the cells from being split during the Watershed segmentation. Choose a size of *20*. This result will be referred to as the *Inverted Membrane*.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/removeholes_17.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

    We cannot use the inverted membrane image as the cytoplasm just yet. The space above and the below the monolayer is also of high signal. The Watershed module cannot distinguish that this is not cytoplasm, so it will have to be removed. To do this we will take advantage of the signal across all channels to define the boundaries of the monolayer.

1. Add another **ImageMath** module. Add all of the original images together. This creates a composite image that will be used to define where cells are present and the background above and below the cells. This image will be referred to as the *Monolayer*

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/imagemath_18.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Resize** module to resize the Monolayer with a *Resizing factor* of *0.25*. Downsampling the image makes processing faster and decreases noise.  

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_19.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Closing** module. Choose a size of *17* to blend the signal together. The result should look like a cloud of signal where the monolayer resides.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/closing_20.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Resize** module to resize the closed Monolayer back to its original size, using a *Resizing factor* of *4*.  

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/resize_21.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Threshold** module and threshold the smoothed monolayer image. This will define what is and is not monolayer. Note that the space above and below the monolayer is primarily black.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/applythreshold_22.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

    Now we will combine the information from the membrane channel with what we identified as the monolayer. We will do this by using the **MaskImage** module to apply the MonolayerMask to the thresholded membrane.

1. Add a **MaskImage** module. You will use an *Image* as a mask (the MonolayerMask image generated in the previous step). In this case, the mask does not need to be inverted. Note that the planes on the bottom and top of the z-stack are black in the masked image.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/maskimage_23.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add an **ErodeImage** module. We will use this module to erode the membrane image generated in the previous step. Eroding using a *ball* of size *1* improves the separation between individual cells in the Watershed segmentation (the next step).   

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/erodeimage_24.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Add a **Watershed** module. The input is the result of the previous ErodeImage module, referred to here as the MembFinal. Change the *Generate from* option to *Markers*. The Markers will be the *NucleiSeeds* image, which is the output of the ConvertObjectsToImage module. Finally, set the Mask to also be the *MembFinal*. This will help preserve the cell boundaries.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/watershed_25.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

# Making measurements
Now that the nuclei and cells have been segmented in this monolayer, measurements can be made using modules from the **Measurements** category.

1. Add any desired measurements modules. For example, you might choose to **MeasureObjectIntensity** and/or **MeasureObjectSizeShape**. When applying these measurements, be careful to measure the original images, not rescaled images.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/measureintensity_26.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. Save the ouput of your measurements using **ExportToSpreadsheet** or **ExportToDatabase**.

# Creating visuals

Congratulations! The nuclei and cells have been segmented and measured in this monolayer. Visuals that reveal the details of the segmentation can be also be created within CellProfiler. The following steps will walk through two different options to visualize your CellProfiler segmentations.

1. The **OverlayObjects** module will overlay the objects as colored masks on the image. We recommend overlaying onto rescaled images, which will be easier to visualize outside of CellProfiler. For example, you can choose the *Nuclei* as the objects and the *RescaledDNA* as your image. These are useful for visualization, but unfortunately cannot be saved.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/overlay_29.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>

1. You can also convert the objects to images using the **ConvertObjectsToImage** module and then save the output using **SaveImages**. This option will allow you to visualize the segmentations directly in Fiji.

    <p align="center"><img src="docs/images/convertobjectstoimage_36.png" alt="rescale5" width="600"/></p>


After running these last two modules an output image will be created and saved to the output directory. Use Fiji to inspect the this image.

Thank you for completing the 3d monolayer tutorial!
